Okay so the last piece that
I want to cover here for
our navbar is making it responsive.
So right now, our navbar is configured
such that it looks the same across
all screen dimensions, okay?
And I discussed earlier that this has got
maybe some issues when it goes to mobile,
it would be better off maybe
having a hamburger button.
I have that covered elsewhere in
the Frontend Masters curriculum.
We're not gonna add it
here in this course.
But when it gets big, we probably
like this to all go in one line.
And in fact,
in our final portfolio website,
you see how I've got my name
pushed over here to the left.
I've got my navigation
over here on the right.
And when I make this screen smaller,
then it rearranges itself
at some point in time.
So that is what I mean
by making it responsive.
We're gonna change the way this page is
laid out when we get to what's called
a break point.
So and we can define that as some
screen width on our website.
So let me show you how to set that up.
So right here after all of the styles that
are here in my style sheet currently.
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to add a media query,
which is part of responsive design.
I talk a lot about responsive design
in my course here at Frontend Masters,
which is all about flexbox and grid.
That will walk you through all of
the details of responsive design and
how this works.
This is a really brief lesson.
And the way we're gonna set this up
is with what's called a media query.
And it looks like this at media and
we're going to say a minimum
width of 850 pixels.
Why 850?
Because extensive testing showed that
this was the right point to put those.
You can make that number,
whatever you like.
And we're gonna put in a couple of
brackets and then inside of this,
we can put in styles that will become
effective only when the window is at least
850 pixels wide.
So in other words, 851, 1000 pixels,
1200 pixels and so forth.
As that window gets wider,
these are the styles that will apply
because they're later in the document.
They're gonna override
anything that came before.
So what I'm going to say here
is I'm going to save for my nav.
I'm now going to put in a max
width of 1200 pixels because let's
face it we have some really
big monitors these days and
we could have this navbar
get really out of control.
We could have my name so
far separated from the navbar
that it would just be ridiculous.
So let's sort of limit
that with that screen and
we're gonna say no more than 1200 pixels
wide and we'll say margin of zero auto.
And as I mentioned before,
margins zero auto,
we'll center that very nicely on the page.
We may not see a lot of change
over here right now, but
that'll be important
as we get this set up.
Now the only other thing I need
to do is to take my name and
put it back on the same
line as my navigation.
So the way we got it off of that before,
is here in the style with
a nav li first child, we said,
we set the flex basis to 100%.
So it took up a full width of a line.
Now what I want to do is I want it
to take up whatever flexbox says.
So we're gonna just reset that here inside
of our media query nav li first child.
The flex basis will be auto, okay?
So a 100% is no longer in effect that will
immediately put it back
down onto the same line.
And here it is centered on the page,
I'm also gonna turn off that centering.
Remember we text align the words in
the center of that particular box.
I'm gonna turn that off also,
text, align left, okay?
Again, you may not see much
change here immediately, but
it'll be important in just a moment.
Because the last thing
we'll add to this as we're
gonna say margin, hyphen, right, auto.
And that's the magic sauce that will
push the logo way over to the left and
the rest of the navbar all
the way over to the right.
So rather than flexbox, without this,
what's going on is take that out for
a second.
What's happening now is the default
flexbox that we already set.
We said take everything center
it in the middle of the line.
And so the extra space right now that's
associated with that line is evenly split
between the left and
right side outside of the logo,
outside of that last navigation item.
By adding the line here.
Margin-right auto, I'm taking all of that
space from the outside of my navbar,
and I'm putting it in between the first
child and the rest of the navbar.
So now because right now my code
pin is over 850 pixels wide.
This is the way the navbar looks as I make
it smaller, see how it changes its layout.
So that is as simple as we can make
responsive design right there.
Just responded to a different screen
size in just a couple of CSS styles.